young adults are mixing them with
alcohol Bakht in particular and causing
them to drink and to excess but the
caffeine the amount of caffeine in these
drinks is really really excessive and if
you're someone like a nice by the way a
lot of parents don't even know if their
child has an underlying condition
because it's they're not symptomatic
they're not showing symptoms of the
disease but someone who has an
underlying medical condition it could be
complicated by a huge consumption of
caffeine in a short period of time so
this is these are two cans of the energy
drink they're a lot of different kinds
of energy drink but these are two 24
ounce cans so what is how much caffeine
is this sure well first let's be clear
that there are a lot of different energy
drinks we're not picking on this
particular energy drink this is just
germane to our story but there are all
kinds of energy drinks that parents
should be aware of these particular two
sizes combined have 480 milligrams of
caffeine what is that we're gonna say
what does that mean well here we have so
people can see would be the equivalent
of seven shots of espresso or fourteen
cans of soda that is the equivalent okay
and the issue here Anderson let's be
clear the issue here is the concentrated
time over which this was consumed if you
drink this over a week it wouldn't do
anything to you but to drink it within
24 hours obviously and you have an
underlying condition this could
complicate did you know how much
caffeine was in these drinks I had no
idea was it was it was this much no and
I'm still not sure because there are
other stimulants that contain caffeine
that are listed as something else hmm
and what does caffeine do to a body I
mean what is it sure when people drink
people drink caffeine I drink caffeine
you know and so does all the time sure
well first of all it makes you jarred
affects your central nervous system we
have a great animation the first thing
it does is increases your heart rate so
people at home can see on the left that
is the normal heart rate about 60 to 80
beats per minute on the right is a
hundred beats per minute or more that's
called tachycardia or accelerated heart
rate when you get into that accelerated
heart rate it can cause all kinds of
problems including going into an
arrhythmia which is a problem the second
thing Anderson is caffeine can cause
something call something called
vasoconstriction so we have a great
graphic here of a blood
so on the left side is a normal blood
vessel that is what it typically looks
like your blood flows through it on the
right side is when the blood vessel
narrows or becomes constricted then you
have a smaller space for the blood to go
through and that can create all kinds of
or this is a dumb question but when you
exercise you want to get your heart rate
up so what's the problem with getting
your heart rate up if with caffeine
sure well the issue will get your heart
rate with exercise is it will go away so
when you stop exercising your heart will
normalize heart rate will normalize with
caffeine it is an extended effect over a
longer period of time and therefore your
heart does not want to be at that
accelerated rate for a long period of
time
how prevalent a problem is this I mean
I've never I'd never heard of people
having problems with with energy drinks
or unfortunately it's too prevalent in
fact since 2005 there's been a tenfold
increase in the number of ER visits
related to caffeine toxicity in fact
2009 thirteen thousand cases in ers
across the country because people over
consumed can show our kids more or more
susceptible to it well it's not
necessarily kids are more susceptible to